There are 6 things needed to pass a guard:

    1.- Close the distance
    2.- Have a grip
    3.- Angle
    4.- Level
    5.- Penetration

    A new wave open guard 3 25:22
Important moves

    When they reach the hips line
    1.- Crossover

    2.- High knee and curved back
      Always keep elbow and knee together,   Frame same side arm with your arm :
      A)Reach the partner other leg (scissor guard)
      B)Hook inside his biceps, over harm
      C) Just hook his bicep, under arm m
      C)Hook inside his knee
      Alway recenter and reset the alignment

    3.- Turtle to guard
      1.- go to your side (the one that hie is on)
      2.- Keep elbow of the ground side, tuvk into your waist
      3.- Scissor yoyr lowe body


    When they reach the shoulders line
    4.- Inverted spin (27:31)
      1.- Do the banana movemente
      2.- One knee penetrates inside
      3.- The other leg over


ARM FRAMING

    All require a banana shaped back. Get used to always be that way on defense
    When he is passing the waist line  1 and 2 requires knee and elbow connections

    1.- Use your extender arm to form a frame in the shoulder or the biceps
    2.- when he is closer (you couldn't recover on 1) place your mantis hook on his shoulder
        Alternate 2: do a pendulum escape
    3.- if you couldn't recover in 2. Place that hand to your front head and with the other do a us salute to the flag. Turn into your opponent and do a knee escape

FEET POSITIONS

    1.- always put your feet in an asymetrical levels
    2.- always have your feet pointed at your partner. Make sure your feet an on 90 degress with your legs. Not like ballerina
    3.- if you can't have #2 pont your knees at him readjusting your hips and then do a guard retention move to achieve #2
    If 3 fails. You can make resistance by puting your farthest elbow from him forming a frame to either your knee knee or the ground. Then recover 3.

    The whole point is the center line between you and your partner. Try always recovering that

Golden rule of guard retention .
Defense attack cycles.

When you recover the to center it's time to attack. You will see the position of his head to decide what to do

High: leg locks
Middle: triangle and arm bars
Low:  pull to take the back
