Leg locks entries new gave 1 vol 5 32.10
  1.- Start sitting on the ground
  2.- grab his arm an pull him in
  3.- couchi: he will pull back, use that to push him and put both feet hooks as barrier for him to fall. If he fall he is naive and you are done. Return if he put all the weight on that foot. Just pull hard and he will fall. Return

  4.- he will kick one foot outside your hook. Firmly grab the other one ( closest to you). He will try to spin to get out so grab with both hands to the handler

A) ASHI GARAMI (New wave 1 open guard vol 5 20:04)

  1.- He will peel the hip feet.  Put that feet on the ground and with the other still inside push him to drive his hands to the ground. Push him forward to the side of your head

  2.- Pose with your free hand on his armpit, move your hips to the inside to be perpendicular to him

  3.- Place your free feet almost on his  farthest ankle to do the sam as in 1. He will cross his legs to avoid falling
      If he falls just follow. return

  4.- Trap the feet he just swing  with the help of your arm and kee, and lock the triangle

  WARNING THERE IS A ROLLING KIMURA HE CAN MAKE (New wave 1 open guard vol 6 32:44)
  DEFENSES: high leg or heavy leg (all body weight on tht side) (New wave 1 open guard vol 6 43:42 )
  OTHER DEFENSE: Hip to the ground (New wave 1 open guard vol 6 53:47)

  1.- Follow him and pin his leg with your knee and shin
  2.- Try recovering the 411 with the other knee, and sit down (or roll forward)

  If he extend the free leg
  1.- take your hand from outside positon and do an inside position
  2.- Rotate to attack the knee or heel
  3.- Make sure your knees are pointing to the sky




B) BEST 50/50 STANDING (New wave 1 open guard vol 5 24:04)
  1.- Put the feet on your other hip pocket, not the same side you gabed

  2.- Do a 50/50 grab:  First helping you with your outside leg

  3.-If he place his other feet away, just take him to the ground (naive)
     IMPORTANT. when you go for the 5050 position quickly cross your legs because he can do a heel hook if youdont

  4.-If he stays on top. Release the foot that you are grabbing and grab feet between the ankle and the calf.
      With your other hand, place the back of your hand against his feet and bring your head through his legs
      After you do the inside spin and got the heel hook.
      IMPORTANT: turn your shoulders so that the top shoulder passes the perpendicular line of the floor and make your belly point to it.  If you don't do this this is the window of time he have to back step. If he back step, follows, putting your feet in his tights forming a cross ashi. Use your top leg as a shield to his torso
  5.- Grab the heel hook


